We added a lot of functionality in this core section our recipe book is really taking shape.
Now of course there are also some features we haven't added yet which we will add later.
For now I want to make this shopping list input fields here working so that we can add new items to
our shopping list.
We will overwrite this later when we learned about forums.
But it's a great exercise to work with local references and at view child for now.
So what I want to do is I want to work on this shopping list added component here.
Here we got a couple of input fields and get the Add button which submits our form and later delete
and clear.
Now I'm one to allow the user to add new items.
So what I'll do is I will restructure both inputs to use multiple lines simply to make it easy to read
and understand and on the first input for the name.
I will add a local reference named name and put on the second one.
I'll add one named amount input.
Now with data set up your challenge would be to get this add button.
You kind of use these local references preferably by ever passing them as an argument or more advanced
by selecting them with at view child so that once you click the button you use the values of these inputs
to create a new ingredient and add it to your array of ingredients.
Here's your chance with you and try this on your own.
Then we'll do this together.
So were you successful.
Let's do it together.
We already have our local references here so all I have to do for now is add a click listener and a
name add on add item and I could pass the local references or even already local reference to value
here as arguments.
I will use the View child approach though so any shopping list of component all add on an item method
and then at the top or add two properties to name input reference and that will be of type.
Element ref.
As we learned.
Make sure to import this from an angle or core and it will get a value by using At view child which
also needs to be imported from an angle or core.
And here we passed the name of the local reference so name import forwarders.
First input field while at.
Now I'm going to duplicate this and simply rename just to amount input and amount input.
That's a local reference you put on the second input here and with these two inputs add it in on add
item.
I now want to emit a new event where I pass this data to the parent component which is the shopping
list component which manages my array of ingredients.
So we learned how to embed our own events so quickly go food it again here.
I'll name it ingredient added which will be a new event emitter.
Of course you can choose another name for your event.
I will pass an object here as an argument which will hold the name which will be a string and the amount
which will be a number and that you're also close to parentheses that here is simply just a type definition.
So that type will be a javascript object with two properties.
Name an amount where the first property name is a string and the second one is a number so that's not
a value.
That's just the type definition.
Now of course for this exact type definition we get our ingredient model so we can replace lives this
this with just ingredient.
Make sure to import the ingredient from the shared folder and then the ingredient in Top Model file
though.
Well in with this an on ad id. we can create a new ingredient your with the new keyword and an ingredient
and we simply passed a name.
Input ref.
Native element.
Value here and there will simply be the value of the input element and the same for the amount.
But since this is really long I'll treat you new temporary constant so to say or Constans to make this
code a bit shorter.
So the ingredient name will be retrieved from the name and put reference from the native element which
has the input element and then from the value field.
And the same 40 ingredient amount here.
I would simply get this from the amount input ref and with these two constants here I will simply pass.
I enjoy the name.
And I N G amount here.
So I will create my new ingredient with that data.
Important.
The constants here are used or I use constant instead of that because we're not going to change these
variables.
But they won't be variables any more than as well we only assign these values one time and you should
declare something as a constant.
If you don't plan on changing it so with this I can now admit my own event here and past a new ingredient
as data.
Well and with this all we have to do is we have to add at output in front of our own event here so that
we can listen to it from outside.
Make sure to import output from Angela Corey.
And now in our shopping list component which implements the shopping component we can listen to our
ingredient added event here and there.
I want to execute on ingredient added and we will get some data which is always stored in dollars and
you rent which I want to pass to my on ingredient added method.
That's implementor's Meffert here.
So on ingredient added I know I will receive an ingredient of type ingredient.
That is what our event emits the data.
We set up there and now we can reach out to our ingredients array and push a new ingredient.
The one we got here is data on it.
And with that we should be able to indeed add some whips year add some bread to it.
One quick ad and you'll see it on the list.
So we got to half way working shopping list.
Of course delete and clear is not working.
All the consulate items here.
That's something I'll work on later.
I want to learn more about forums which give us some nice tools to manage them but we greatly enhanced
our app in this section.
We added some kind of working navigation.
We are able to select a recipe here and we are able to add new items to the shopping list already.
Even though some of these behaviors will get overwritten later in the course.
It still is a great start.
Now let's move on and learn more about directives so that next time we come back to this project we
can make our dropdown buttons here work.
See you there.